<h1> GitHub and Markdown to Create a Mobile Ready Website. </h1>
This semester I used Github and the Markdown language to create my own mobile ready website. I was excited to be able to create my own website and I was surprised how easy it was to create. I did run into a few issues. The first thing to consider when using Github is that everything you post is public. This means that every spelling mistake and grammar error is visiable to everyone. Also, there is a bit of a learning curve to the Markdown language. For example, I tried to add a colon in my title and it crashed my post. While the fix was easy, it was frustrating to figure out what was causing the problem.    


<h1> Evaluating GitHub and Reveal.js </h1>
This semester I used Github and Reveal.js to make the visual component for several presentations. One of the nicest parts of using this is how much control I had with making my visual component. I used a template that allowed me to make the visual component and the rest was up to me. I used Google to learn how to change the colors and make different backgrounds and it was very customizable. Also, using Reveal.js in the classroom made presentation day much easier. For example, instead of everyone e-mailing the professor or bring in a flash drive, everyone's presentations were online and very easy to find. Although it was easy to switch from person to person it did take some for the presentation to get pushed on the website. For example, there were times I made some last minute changes and I was terrified I would be called next since my presentation took too long to update. I believe this is a great tool that should be utilized more, but just like everything else there is a learning curve, such as learning the Markdown language.
