---
layout: post
title: Digital Stealing
bigimg: /img/Handcuff.jpg
tags: [media, problems, social-media, not-social]


---
### TL;DR The Internet has made our lives easier, and it has made criminals out of most people.

Oftentimes people browse the Internet without thinking of the consequences because of the anonymity that the Internet gives us. This anonymous feeling that the Internet can be useful by allowing people to share thoughts that they normally would not but, it also allows for people to do things that they would not normally do. Most people know breaking the law is bad, but people do it on the internet without thinking. One example of this is cyberbullying, which is illegal in most states. The Internet has now allowed for students to have endless information at their fingertips, which has caused an increase in plagiarism. Another example of digital stealing is piracy, which has gained popularity with the Internet. Lastly, when people use the Internet their morals seem to disappear. For example, some people use an ad blocker, which can be considered stealing revenue from websites.

Most high schools have a "zero tolerance" policy on bullying, yet cyberbullying has gained in popularity. One reason that cyberbullying is so prevalent is because it allows students to hide behind their computer screen and say things that they normally would not say to someone in person. Although there are some laws that are against cyberbullying there are no federal laws against cyberbullying (Federal). Despite cyberbullying having the same effect as regular bullying, some states do not have laws or bullying policies that protect the victim when they are off campus, for example online. Despite there being "laws" against cyberbullying it is prevalent because there are not as many laws on the punishment. According to "Stopbullying.gov" there are not any Pennsylvania laws that state that the bully will receive any punishment, which shows there are not consequences in that state for cyberbullying.

Cyberbullying is not the only crime that happens on school property. Plagiarism is an academic crime that has sparked with the growth of the Internet. One reason for this is because students are getting their information on the Internet, which eliminates the need to physically hold the article. According to a campus librarian when you are holding the article in your hand you know that this information does not belong to you, but when you are sitting at the same computer where you illegally download music and watch shows for free this line gets blurred (Gabriel). In the last decade about 34% of students considered plagiarism a serious crime but more recently this number has dropped to 29% (Gabriel). About 40 percent of the 14,000 undergraduate students at Rutgers University admitted to copying several sentences in their assignments (Gabriel). This is an issue that does not show a sign of stopping unless students start to become educated on the topic.    

One of the more serious Internet crimes is piracy. The reason this a more serious crime is because it carries larger possible penalties. These penalties include "up to five years in federal prison and a fine of $250,000" (FBI). Although this sounds like a serve punishment, the majority of those who pirate never get caught, which makes internet piracy more enticing. Now that most people have high speed-internet, people can get access to free content easier than ever before. The problem with this is that it is the cause of an estimated 12.5 billion dollar loss to the United States economy (Siwek). It can also be argued that piracy hurts musicians, but artist hardly make money off of their song purchases and streams.

The last thing that people do on the internet that is harmful is using an ad blocker. People can use ad blockers to prevent them from seeing pesky ads and to even stop them from being tracked. Although this sounds great, the problem with it is that many websites use revenue from advertisements to make their money, when users use Ad blockers this lowers the websites revenue. In 2015 the software for blocking ads grew 41% with 198 million users supporting this software (Murphy). In order to counter this, some websites have two options. One option is that websites are able to detect when users are using an ad blocker and have been either telling users that this is hurting their ad revenue and asking them to disable the ad blocker. The second option is that websites are forcing users to stop using their ad blocker in order to continue viewing the website. These are the two most efficient ways that websites can control ad blockers since there are no laws against this and the Federal Trade Commission has yet to do anything (Murphy).  

In this new digital age, people need to be more responsible with what they do on the internet. Although for most people morals are not a big enough reason to stop these internet crimes. The reason that piracy, plagiarism, cyberbully and the loss of ad revenue exists are because of laws that are nonexistent or not enforced. For example, piracy has gained popularity despite harsh punishments since the majority of people do not get caught. Although people should do the right thing despite internet anonymity, a solution to these problems is to have better-written laws and to enforce them even more.     

The internet is a great invention that has allowed for a multitude of things to be at our fingertips. It is a great tool that can be used for good things such as education and enjoyment but, the internet can entice people to do the wrong thing or even illegal things. For example, social media is a great way to connect and chat with friends but often times students use this to cyberbully their peers which is wrong and in most cases illegal. Another way the internet can be harmful is internet piracy. Internet piracy is stealing but since people are behind a screen and hardly get caught most people do not see it this way. Another form of stealing that takes place using the internet is plagiarism. This generation does not feel the pressure to feel unique so plagiarism does not seem as harmful as it truly is (Gabriel). Lastly, ad blockers are a growing trend that is hurting the websites. Most people fail to see this since they are more considered with their comfort on the internet. Although there are laws that prevent most of these behaviors the main way to prevent these actions is to educate the people and truly have the majority of internet users against these crimes.      


<small> "Federal Laws." *Stop Bullying.* 31 March 2014. https://www.stopbullying.gov/laws/federal/index.html </small>

<small> Gabriel, Trip. "Plagiarism Lines Blur for Students in Digital Age." *The New York Times.* 1 August 2010.  "http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/02/education/02cheat.html </small>

<small> Siwek, Stephen E. "The True Cost of Sound Recording Piracy to the U.S. Economy." *The Institute for Policy Innovation.* 21 August 2007.
http://ipi.org/ipi_issues/detail/the-true-cost-of-sound-recording-piracy-to-the-us-economy </small>

<small> "FBI Abti-Piracy Warning Seal." *FBI*  https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/white-collar-crime/piracy-ip-theft/fbi-anti-piracy-warning-seal </small>

<small> Murphy, Kate. "The Ad Blocking Wars." *The New York Times.* 20 February 2016.  https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/21/opinion/sunday/the-ad-blocking-wars.html?_r=0 </small>


<small> <a title="Handcuffs" href="https://flickr.com/photos/v1ctor/7606416730">Handcuffs</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/v1ctor">.v1ctor Casale.</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
