---
layout: post
title: Music Piracy
bigimg: /img/music.jpg
---

TL;DR Music piracy has been around for years, but with the advancement of technology this problem has expanded.


Piracy has been around for years, but the Internet has caused an explosion of pirated media. The music industry in the United States losses an estimated 12.5 billion dollars annually (Siwek). Despite many piracy laws, artists are still losing royalties from illegally downloading. The largest demographic guilty of piracy is college students.
Kelsey Evans is a political science and psychology double-major at Allegheny college has taken a stance towards music piracy.  
Research Based Fact: The U.S. economy loses $12.5 billion annually.
**1) What are your thoughts on piracy?**
I know that it is bad but I don't think it should be a felony.
**2) Do you believe that despite it being digital, piracy is the same as stealing, explain.**
Theoretically they are the same because you are stealing an artist work, but I do not think they are the exact same. For example, if you turn on the radio you can hear the same song that you would buy.
**3) Is using pirated software as bad as listening to pirated music?**
I believe that when you download pirated software there is a greater risk. For example, downloading pirated software could end up giving you a virus or even whipping out your computer. Also, pirated software can save you up to $1000 for just one program while one song only costs $1, so you are gaining more by downloading software.
**4) Telling you that about 12.5 billion is lost from the economy due to piracy, what are your thoughts?**
When talking about music piracy I think of the radio. People do not have to pay to listen to the radio, yet often times the songs they want to listen to are being played. Although you usually do not get to listen to the song you want to hear when you want to, people are still about to listen to the radio for free. This makes me think that if people cannot afford to pay for music they could listen to the radio or pirate the song. This still causes money to be lost.
**5) Have you ever been fined for pirating anything?**
No.
**6) What thoughts do you have about piracy laws and enforcement of these laws?**
I do not know much about these laws except they are not highly enforced. The only time that I have ever heard of someone getting in trouble for piracy was on the children's T.V. show *ICarly*. If they really want to stop piracy the laws need to be enforced better.
**7) Do you believe that there is a stigma around piracy?**
Not really, for example, you cannot tell the difference between the quality of pirated music and music that has been purchase. Also, people do not judge the way you received the media.
**8) Do you think the Internet has caused piracy to expand?**
Yes, because of technology everyone gets what they want right now. If people wanted to listen to a song right now that they did not buy they can just go to YouTube and listen to it there. Also, you cannot listen to the YouTube application and still use your phone, this almost forces people to download the song.
**9) Is there a reason why you don't pirate music?**
I just do not know how. Also, I usually buy whole albums which would take time to pirate.
**10) What is the estimated amount you've spent on music in your lifetime?**
I have spent over $1,000 on music in my lifetime. For instance, I spend $10 a month just to have spotify.
**11) Signed artists hardly make money off of an iTunes purchase, and they make even less on a steam, what are your thoughts on this?** This gives actual validity to piracy. Since the artist themselves are not making much money from the download or stream it almost makes sense to pirate since you really are not ripping off the artist.

<small> Siwek, Stephen E. "The True Cost of Sound Recording Piracy to the U.S. Economy." The Institute for Policy Innovation. 21 August 2007.
http://ipi.org/ipi_issues/detail/the-true-cost-of-sound-recording-piracy-to-the-us-economy </small>


<small> <a title="music notes with violin key" href="https://flickr.com/photos/42931449@N07/5187487629">music notes with violin key</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/42931449@N07">photosteve101</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>
